docs/Homebrew-linuxbrew-core-Maintainer-Guide.md, before:

# Homebrew linuxbrew-core Maintainer Guide

## Merging formulae updates from Homebrew/homebrew-core

Linuxbrew-core is a fork of Homebrew-core and, therefore, it has to periodically
merge changes made by Homebrew developers and contributors. Below we
describe the steps required to merge `Homebrew/homebrew-core` into
`Linuxbrew/homebrew-core`, possible conflicts and ways to resolve
them. Note, that instructions below have been written for a "clean"
environment and you might be able to skip some of the steps if you
have done them in the past.

### Preparation

First of all, we want to enable developer commands and prevent
automatic updates while we do the merge:

```bash
export HOMEBREW_DEVELOPER=1
export HOMEBREW_NO_AUTO_UPDATE=1
```

Once we've done that, we need to get access to the `merge-homebrew`
command that will be used for the merge. To do that we have to tap the
[`linuxbrew/homebrew-developer`](https://github.com/Linuxbrew/homebrew-developer)
repo:

```bash
brew tap linuxbrew/developer
```

Next, we have to navigate to the repository where we want to do the
merge and make sure that there are 3 remotes:

* a remote named `origin` pointing to Linuxbrew-core,
* a remote named `homebrew` pointing to Homebrew-core, and
* a remote pointing to your GitHub fork of Linuxbrew-core.

Remote names `origin` and `homebrew` are hard-coded in
`merge-homebrew`, while the remote pointing to your fork must be the
same as your GitHub username, as it will be used to submit a pull
request for the merge. Set the name to the `$HOMEBREW_GITHUB_USER` environment
variable, or let `hub fork` add a remote for you.

```bash
brew install hub
cd $(brew --repo homebrew/core)
git remote add homebrew https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core.git
hub fork --remote-name=$HOMEBREW_GITHUB_USER
```

Now, let's make sure that our local branch `master` is clean and that
your fork is up-to-date with Homebrew/linuxbrew-core:

```bash
git checkout master
git fetch origin master
git reset --hard origin/master
git push --force $HOMEBREW_GITHUB_USER master
```

Strictly speaking, there is no need for `git reset --hard
origin/master` and simple `git merge origin/master` would have been
sufficient if you didn't mess with your local `master` branch.
However, hard reset makes sure that these instructions are correct
even if you did mess something up. The same is true for the `--force`
flag for the `git push` command above.

By default, the following command will attempt to merge all the
changes that the upstream Homebrew developers have made.

```bash
brew merge-homebrew --core
```

Merging all the changes from upstream in one go is usually
undesireable since our build servers will time out. Instead, attempt
to only merge 8-10 modified formulae.

`git log --oneline master..homebrew/master` will show a list of all
the upstream commits since the last merge, from oldest to newest.

Pick a commit SHA-1 that will merge between 8-10 formulae (16-20 commits
including bottles). Once you're satisfied with the list of updated
formulae, begin the merge:

```bash
brew merge-homebrew --core --skip-style <sha>
```

The `--skip-style` argument skips running `brew style`, which saves
time and in some cases avoids errors. The style errors can be fixed in
bottle PRs later in the process when CI flags them.

#### Simple Conflicts

Once you issue the above command, the merge will begin and in the very
end you will see the list of (conflicting) formulae that
`merge-homebrew` could not merge automatically:

```bash
==> Conflicts
Formula/git-lfs.rb Formula/gnutls.rb Formula/godep.rb
```

Note, that you can also get a list of unmerged files (*i.e.* files with conflicts) using:

```sh
git diff --name-only --diff-filter=U
```

Of course, conflicts will be different every merge. You have to
resolve these conflicts either manually in a text editor, or by using
tools like `diffuse`, `tkdiff`, or `meld`, some of which are available
from Homebrew. Frequently, conflicts are caused by the new versions
of macOS bottles and look like:

```ruby
<<<<<<< HEAD
    sha256 "bd66be269cbfe387920651c5f4f4bc01e0793034d08b5975f35f7fdfdb6c61a7" => :sierra
    sha256 "7071cb98f72c73adb30afbe049beaf947fabfeb55e9f03e0db594c568d77d69d" => :el_capitan
    sha256 "c7c0fe2464771bdcfd626fcbda9f55cb003ac1de060c51459366907edd912683" => :yosemite
    sha256 "95d4c82d38262a4bc7ef4f0a10ce2ecf90e137b67df15f8bf8df76e962e218b6" => :x86_64_linux
=======
    sha256 "ee6db42174fdc572d743e0142818b542291ca2e6ea3c20ff6a47686589cdc274" => :sierra
    sha256 "e079a92a6156e2c87c59a59887d0ae0b6450d6f3a9c1fe14838b6bc657faefaa" => :el_capitan
    sha256 "c334f91d5809d2be3982f511a3dfe9a887ef911b88b25f870558d5c7e18a15ad" => :yosemite
>>>>>>> homebrew/master
```

For such conflicts, simply remove the "HEAD" (Linuxbrew's) part of the
conflict along with `<<<<<<< HEAD`, `=======`, and `>>>>>>>
homebrew/master` lines. Later, we will submit a request to rebuild
bottles for Linux for such formulae.

The `merge-homebrew` script will stage resolved conflicts for you.

#### Complex Conflicts

Of course, from time to time conflicts are more complicated and you
have to look carefully into what's going on. An example of a slightly
more complex conflict is below:

```ruby
<<<<<<< HEAD
    if OS.mac?
      lib.install "out-shared/libleveldb.dylib.1.19" => "libleveldb.1.19.dylib"
      lib.install_symlink lib/"libleveldb.1.19.dylib" => "libleveldb.dylib"
      lib.install_symlink lib/"libleveldb.1.19.dylib" => "libleveldb.1.dylib"
      system "install_name_tool", "-id", "#{lib}/libleveldb.1.dylib", "#{lib}/libleveldb.1.19.dylib"
    else
      lib.install Dir["out-shared/libleveldb.so*"]
    end
=======
    lib.install "out-shared/libleveldb.dylib.1.19" => "libleveldb.1.19.dylib"
    lib.install_symlink lib/"libleveldb.1.19.dylib" => "libleveldb.dylib"
    lib.install_symlink lib/"libleveldb.1.19.dylib" => "libleveldb.1.dylib"
    MachO::Tools.change_dylib_id("#{lib}/libleveldb.1.dylib", "#{lib}/libleveldb.1.19.dylib")
>>>>>>> homebrew/master
```

Note, that in the "HEAD" (Linuxbrew's) part we see previous code of
the Homebrew's formula wrapped in `if OS.mac?`. To resolve such a
conflict you have to replace the contents of `if OS.mac?` part up
until `else` with the contents of the bottom part of the conflict
("homebrew/master"). You also have to check if there are any obvious
modifications that have to be made to the `else` part of the code that
deals with non-macOS-related code.


#### Finishing the merge

Once all the conflicts have been resolved, a text editor will open
with pre-populated commit message title and body:

```text
Merge branch homebrew/master into linuxbrew/master

# Conflicts:
#       Formula/git-lfs.rb
#       Formula/gnutls.rb
#       Formula/godep.rb
```

Leave the title of the message unchanged and uncomment all the
conflicting files. Your final commit message should be:

```text
Merge branch homebrew/master into linuxbrew/master

Conflicts:
        Formula/git-lfs.rb
        Formula/gnutls.rb
        Formula/godep.rb
```

#### Submitting a PR

The `merge-homebrew` command will create a pull-request for you, using `hub`.

Once the PR successfully passes the tests and/or is approved by other
Homebrew developers, you can finalize the merge with:

```bash
brew pull --clean <PR-NUMBER>
git push origin master
```

The merge is now complete. Don't forget to update your GitHub fork by
running `git push your-fork master`

## Building bottles for updated formulae

After merging changes, we must rebuild bottles for all the PRs that
had conflicts.

To do this, tap `Linuxbrew/homebrew-developer` and run the following
command where the merge commit is `HEAD`:

```sh
for formula in $(brew find-formulae-to-bottle); do
  brew build-bottle-pr --remote=$HOMEBREW_GITHUB_USER $formula
done
```

The `find-formulae-to-bottle` command outputs a list of formulae
parsed from the merge commit body. It also performs some checks
against the formulae:

And it skips formulae if any of the following are true:
- it doesn't need a bottle
- it already has a bottle
- the formula depends on macOS to build
- the formula's tap is Homebrew/homebrew-core (the upstream macOS repo)
- there is already an open PR for the formula's bottle
- the current branch is not master

If a formula you are expecting to bottle is skipped, there may be an
error; by default, this script won't output the errors. To see them,
run `brew find-formulae-to-bottle --verbose` separate to the `for`
loop above.

The `build-bottle-pr` script creates a branch called `bottle-<FORMULA>`, adds `# Build a bottle
for Linuxbrew` to the top of the formula, pushes the branch to GitHub
at the specified remote (default: `origin`), and opens a pull request using `hub
pull-request`.

## Common build failures and how to handle them

### Bottling errors

## Handling `brew bump-formula-pr` PRs

### Formulae that exist in Homebrew/homebrew-core

The `brew bump-formula-pr` command will raise PRs against the Linux
formula repo for upstream Mac formulae when running on Linux. This
isn't how version bumps are done for _most_ formulae. Until
[Homebrew/brew issue
6341](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/issues/6341) is implemented - a
feature that will raise PRs against the correct repo for macOS
formulae bumps on Linux - we have to redirect users to raise their PRs
in Homebrew/homebrew-core:

> Thanks for your PR.
>
> However, this formula is not Linux-specific. Its new versions are merged from the [Homebrew/homebrew-core](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core) repository daily [as documented in CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/Homebrew/linuxbrew-core/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Please submit this change as a PR to that repository.
>
> We look forward to your PR against Homebrew/homebrew-core for the next version bump!

### Linux-only formulae

If the formula is a Linux-only formula, it either:
- will contain the line `# tag "linuxbrew"`
- won't have macOS bottles

These formulae are fine for users to bump with `brew bump-formula-pr`,
but you should request that they remove the existing `x86_64_linux`
bottle SHA line so that CI will build a bottle for the new version
correctly. If the bottle SHA isn't removed, CI will fail with the
following error:
> `--keep-old` was passed but there are changes in `sha256 => x86_64_linux`

Commit message:

Note that Homebrew/linuxbrew-core CI won't go green for merge commits

docs/Homebrew-linuxbrew-core-Maintainer-Guide.md, after:

# Homebrew linuxbrew-core Maintainer Guide

## Merging formulae updates from Homebrew/homebrew-core

Linuxbrew-core is a fork of Homebrew-core and, therefore, it has to periodically
merge changes made by Homebrew developers and contributors. Below we
describe the steps required to merge `Homebrew/homebrew-core` into
`Linuxbrew/homebrew-core`, possible conflicts and ways to resolve
them. Note, that instructions below have been written for a "clean"
environment and you might be able to skip some of the steps if you
have done them in the past.

### Preparation

First of all, we want to enable developer commands and prevent
automatic updates while we do the merge:

```bash
export HOMEBREW_DEVELOPER=1
export HOMEBREW_NO_AUTO_UPDATE=1
```

Once we've done that, we need to get access to the `merge-homebrew`
command that will be used for the merge. To do that we have to tap the
[`linuxbrew/homebrew-developer`](https://github.com/Linuxbrew/homebrew-developer)
repo:

```bash
brew tap linuxbrew/developer
```

Next, we have to navigate to the repository where we want to do the
merge and make sure that there are 3 remotes:

* a remote named `origin` pointing to Linuxbrew-core,
* a remote named `homebrew` pointing to Homebrew-core, and
* a remote pointing to your GitHub fork of Linuxbrew-core.

Remote names `origin` and `homebrew` are hard-coded in
`merge-homebrew`, while the remote pointing to your fork must be the
same as your GitHub username, as it will be used to submit a pull
request for the merge. Set the name to the `$HOMEBREW_GITHUB_USER` environment
variable, or let `hub fork` add a remote for you.

```bash
brew install hub
cd $(brew --repo homebrew/core)
git remote add homebrew https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core.git
hub fork --remote-name=$HOMEBREW_GITHUB_USER
```

Now, let's make sure that our local branch `master` is clean and that
your fork is up-to-date with Homebrew/linuxbrew-core:

```bash
git checkout master
git fetch origin master
git reset --hard origin/master
git push --force $HOMEBREW_GITHUB_USER master
```

Strictly speaking, there is no need for `git reset --hard
origin/master` and simple `git merge origin/master` would have been
sufficient if you didn't mess with your local `master` branch.
However, hard reset makes sure that these instructions are correct
even if you did mess something up. The same is true for the `--force`
flag for the `git push` command above.

By default, the following command will attempt to merge all the
changes that the upstream Homebrew developers have made.

```bash
brew merge-homebrew --core
```

Merging all the changes from upstream in one go is usually
undesireable since our build servers will time out. Instead, attempt
to only merge 8-10 modified formulae.

`git log --oneline master..homebrew/master` will show a list of all
the upstream commits since the last merge, from oldest to newest.

Pick a commit SHA-1 that will merge between 8-10 formulae (16-20 commits
including bottles). Once you're satisfied with the list of updated
formulae, begin the merge:

```bash
brew merge-homebrew --core --skip-style <sha>
```

The `--skip-style` argument skips running `brew style`, which saves
time and in some cases avoids errors. The style errors can be fixed in
bottle PRs later in the process when CI flags them.

#### Simple Conflicts

Once you issue the above command, the merge will begin and in the very
end you will see the list of (conflicting) formulae that
`merge-homebrew` could not merge automatically:

```bash
==> Conflicts
Formula/git-lfs.rb Formula/gnutls.rb Formula/godep.rb
```

Note, that you can also get a list of unmerged files (*i.e.* files with conflicts) using:

```sh
git diff --name-only --diff-filter=U
```

Of course, conflicts will be different every merge. You have to
resolve these conflicts either manually in a text editor, or by using
tools like `diffuse`, `tkdiff`, or `meld`, some of which are available
from Homebrew. Frequently, conflicts are caused by the new versions
of macOS bottles and look like:

```ruby
<<<<<<< HEAD
    sha256 "bd66be269cbfe387920651c5f4f4bc01e0793034d08b5975f35f7fdfdb6c61a7" => :sierra
    sha256 "7071cb98f72c73adb30afbe049beaf947fabfeb55e9f03e0db594c568d77d69d" => :el_capitan
    sha256 "c7c0fe2464771bdcfd626fcbda9f55cb003ac1de060c51459366907edd912683" => :yosemite
    sha256 "95d4c82d38262a4bc7ef4f0a10ce2ecf90e137b67df15f8bf8df76e962e218b6" => :x86_64_linux
=======
    sha256 "ee6db42174fdc572d743e0142818b542291ca2e6ea3c20ff6a47686589cdc274" => :sierra
    sha256 "e079a92a6156e2c87c59a59887d0ae0b6450d6f3a9c1fe14838b6bc657faefaa" => :el_capitan
    sha256 "c334f91d5809d2be3982f511a3dfe9a887ef911b88b25f870558d5c7e18a15ad" => :yosemite
>>>>>>> homebrew/master
```

For such conflicts, simply remove the "HEAD" (Linuxbrew's) part of the
conflict along with `<<<<<<< HEAD`, `=======`, and `>>>>>>>
homebrew/master` lines. Later, we will submit a request to rebuild
bottles for Linux for such formulae.

The `merge-homebrew` script will stage resolved conflicts for you.

#### Complex Conflicts

Of course, from time to time conflicts are more complicated and you
have to look carefully into what's going on. An example of a slightly
more complex conflict is below:

```ruby
<<<<<<< HEAD
    if OS.mac?
      lib.install "out-shared/libleveldb.dylib.1.19" => "libleveldb.1.19.dylib"
      lib.install_symlink lib/"libleveldb.1.19.dylib" => "libleveldb.dylib"
      lib.install_symlink lib/"libleveldb.1.19.dylib" => "libleveldb.1.dylib"
      system "install_name_tool", "-id", "#{lib}/libleveldb.1.dylib", "#{lib}/libleveldb.1.19.dylib"
    else
      lib.install Dir["out-shared/libleveldb.so*"]
    end
=======
    lib.install "out-shared/libleveldb.dylib.1.19" => "libleveldb.1.19.dylib"
    lib.install_symlink lib/"libleveldb.1.19.dylib" => "libleveldb.dylib"
    lib.install_symlink lib/"libleveldb.1.19.dylib" => "libleveldb.1.dylib"
    MachO::Tools.change_dylib_id("#{lib}/libleveldb.1.dylib", "#{lib}/libleveldb.1.19.dylib")
>>>>>>> homebrew/master
```

Note, that in the "HEAD" (Linuxbrew's) part we see previous code of
the Homebrew's formula wrapped in `if OS.mac?`. To resolve such a
conflict you have to replace the contents of `if OS.mac?` part up
until `else` with the contents of the bottom part of the conflict
("homebrew/master"). You also have to check if there are any obvious
modifications that have to be made to the `else` part of the code that
deals with non-macOS-related code.


#### Finishing the merge

Once all the conflicts have been resolved, a text editor will open
with pre-populated commit message title and body:

```text
Merge branch homebrew/master into linuxbrew/master

# Conflicts:
#       Formula/git-lfs.rb
#       Formula/gnutls.rb
#       Formula/godep.rb
```

Leave the title of the message unchanged and uncomment all the
conflicting files. Your final commit message should be:

```text
Merge branch homebrew/master into linuxbrew/master

Conflicts:
        Formula/git-lfs.rb
        Formula/gnutls.rb
        Formula/godep.rb
```

#### Submitting a PR

The `merge-homebrew` command will create a pull-request for you, using `hub`.

It is expected that CI checks on the merge commit of the PR will fail.
This is due to a bug with Azure Pipelines and its handling of merge
commits. Master branch builds also fail for the same reason. This is
OK.

Once the PR is approved by other Homebrew developers, you can finalize
the merge with:

```bash
brew pull --clean <PR-NUMBER>
git push origin master
```

The merge is now complete. Don't forget to update your GitHub fork by
running `git push your-fork master`

## Building bottles for updated formulae

After merging changes, we must rebuild bottles for all the PRs that
had conflicts.

To do this, tap `Linuxbrew/homebrew-developer` and run the following
command where the merge commit is `HEAD`:

```sh
for formula in $(brew find-formulae-to-bottle); do
  brew build-bottle-pr --remote=$HOMEBREW_GITHUB_USER $formula
done
```

The `find-formulae-to-bottle` command outputs a list of formulae
parsed from the merge commit body. It also performs some checks
against the formulae:

And it skips formulae if any of the following are true:
- it doesn't need a bottle
- it already has a bottle
- the formula depends on macOS to build
- the formula's tap is Homebrew/homebrew-core (the upstream macOS repo)
- there is already an open PR for the formula's bottle
- the current branch is not master

If a formula you are expecting to bottle is skipped, there may be an
error; by default, this script won't output the errors. To see them,
run `brew find-formulae-to-bottle --verbose` separate to the `for`
loop above.

The `build-bottle-pr` script creates a branch called `bottle-<FORMULA>`, adds `# Build a bottle
for Linuxbrew` to the top of the formula, pushes the branch to GitHub
at the specified remote (default: `origin`), and opens a pull request using `hub
pull-request`.

## Common build failures and how to handle them

### Bottling errors

## Handling `brew bump-formula-pr` PRs

### Formulae that exist in Homebrew/homebrew-core

The `brew bump-formula-pr` command will raise PRs against the Linux
formula repo for upstream Mac formulae when running on Linux. This
isn't how version bumps are done for _most_ formulae. Until
[Homebrew/brew issue
6341](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/issues/6341) is implemented - a
feature that will raise PRs against the correct repo for macOS
formulae bumps on Linux - we have to redirect users to raise their PRs
in Homebrew/homebrew-core:

> Thanks for your PR.
>
> However, this formula is not Linux-specific. Its new versions are merged from the [Homebrew/homebrew-core](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core) repository daily [as documented in CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/Homebrew/linuxbrew-core/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Please submit this change as a PR to that repository.
>
> We look forward to your PR against Homebrew/homebrew-core for the next version bump!

### Linux-only formulae

If the formula is a Linux-only formula, it either:
- will contain the line `# tag "linuxbrew"`
- won't have macOS bottles

These formulae are fine for users to bump with `brew bump-formula-pr`,
but you should request that they remove the existing `x86_64_linux`
bottle SHA line so that CI will build a bottle for the new version
correctly. If the bottle SHA isn't removed, CI will fail with the
following error:
> `--keep-old` was passed but there are changes in `sha256 => x86_64_linux`
