docs/Homebrew-and-Python.md, before:

# Python

This page describes how Python is handled in Homebrew for users. See [Python for Formula Authors](Python-for-Formula-Authors.md) for advice on writing formulae to install packages written in Python.

Homebrew should work with any [CPython](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2324208/is-there-any-difference-between-cpython-and-python) and defaults to the macOS system Python.

Homebrew provides formulae to brew 3.x and a more up-to-date Python 2.7.x.

**Important:** If you choose to install a Python which isn't either of these two (system Python or brewed Python), the Homebrew team cannot support any breakage that may occur.

## Python 3.x or Python 2.x
Homebrew provides one formula for Python 2.7.x and another for Python 3.x. The executables are organized as follows so that Python 2 and Python 3 can both be installed without conflict:
* `python` and `python3` point to Homebrew's Python 3.x (if installed) otherwise the macOS system Python
* `python2` points to Homebrew's Python 2.7.x (if installed)
* `pip` and `pip3` point to Homebrew's Python 3.x's pip (if installed)
* `pip2` points to Homebrew's Python 2.7.x's pip (if installed)

([Wondering which one to choose?](https://wiki.python.org/moin/Python2orPython3))

## Setuptools, Pip, etc.
The Python formulae install [pip](http://www.pip-installer.org) (as `pip` or `pip2`) and [Setuptools](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools).

Setuptools can be updated via pip, without having to re-brew Python:

```sh
python -m pip install --upgrade setuptools
```

Similarly, pip can be used to upgrade itself via:

```sh
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

### Note on `pip install --user`
The normal `pip install --user` is disabled for brewed Python. This is because of a bug in distutils, because Homebrew writes a `distutils.cfg` which sets the package `prefix`.

A possible workaround (which puts executable scripts in `~/Library/Python/<X>.<Y>/bin`) is:

```sh
python -m pip install --user --install-option="--prefix=" <package-name>
```

## `site-packages` and the `PYTHONPATH`
The `site-packages` is a directory that contains Python modules (especially bindings installed by other formulae). Homebrew creates it here:

```sh
$(brew --prefix)/lib/pythonX.Y/site-packages
```

So, for Python 3.6.x, you'll find it at `/usr/local/lib/python3.6/site-packages`.

Python 3.6 also searches for modules in:

- `/Library/Python/3.6/site-packages`
- `~/Library/Python/3.6/lib/python/site-packages`

Homebrew's `site-packages` directory is first created if (1) any Homebrew formula with Python bindings are installed, or (2) upon `brew install python`.

### Why here?
The reasoning for this location is to preserve your modules between (minor) upgrades or re-installations of Python. Additionally, Homebrew has a strict policy never to write stuff outside of the `brew --prefix`, so we don't spam your system.

## Homebrew-provided Python bindings
Some formulae provide Python bindings. Sometimes a `--with-python` or `--with-python@2` option has to be passed to `brew install` in order to build the Python bindings. (Check with `brew options <formula>`.)

**Warning!** Python may crash (see [Common Issues](Common-Issues.md)) if you `import <module>` from a brewed Python if you ran `brew install <formula_with_python_bindings>` against the system Python. If you decide to switch to the brewed Python, then reinstall all formulae with Python bindings (e.g. `pyside`, `wxwidgets`, `pygtk`, `pygobject`, `opencv`, `vtk` and `boost-python`).

## Policy for non-brewed Python bindings
These should be installed via `pip install <package>`. To discover, you can use `pip search` or <https://pypi.python.org/pypi>. (**Note:** System Python does not provide `pip`. Follow the [pip documentation](https://pip.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installing/#install-pip) to install it for your system Python if you would like it.)

## Brewed Python modules
For brewed Python, modules installed with `pip` or `python setup.py install` will be installed to the `$(brew --prefix)/lib/pythonX.Y/site-packages` directory (explained above). Executable Python scripts will be in `$(brew --prefix)/bin`.

The system Python may not know which compiler flags to set in order to build bindings for software installed in Homebrew so you may need to run:

```sh
CFLAGS=-I$(brew --prefix)/include LDFLAGS=-L$(brew --prefix)/lib pip install <package>
```

## Virtualenv
**WARNING:** When you `brew install` formulae that provide Python bindings, you should **not be in an active virtual environment**.

Activate the virtualenv *after* you've brewed, or brew in a fresh Terminal window.
Homebrew will still install Python modules into Homebrew's `site-packages` and *not* into the virtual environment's site-package.

Virtualenv has a `--system-site-packages` switch to allow "global" (i.e. Homebrew's) `site-packages` to be accessible from within the virtualenv.

## Why is Homebrew's Python being installed as a dependency?
Formulae that declare an unconditional dependency on the `"python"` or `"python@2"` formulae are bottled against Homebrew's Python 3.x or 2.7.x and require it to be installed.

Commit message:

Update Homebrew-and-Python to describe install
I believe the Homebrew-and-Python page could use a description on how to exactly install Python 2.X and 3.X with Homebrew. 

The syntax is written to my best knowledge (but likely wrong), please update this so that it is correct. Finding out the correct syntax is what actually motivated me to update this page in the first place. I'm hoping that this will clarify to the community (or at least me) on how to exactly install Python 2.X and 3.X with Homebrew.

Keep up the amazing work!

docs/Homebrew-and-Python.md, after:

# Python

This page describes how Python is handled in Homebrew for users. See [Python for Formula Authors](Python-for-Formula-Authors.md) for advice on writing formulae to install packages written in Python.

Homebrew should work with any [CPython](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2324208/is-there-any-difference-between-cpython-and-python) and defaults to the macOS system Python.

Homebrew provides formulae to brew 3.x and a more up-to-date Python 2.7.x.

**Important:** If you choose to install a Python which isn't either of these two (system Python or brewed Python), the Homebrew team cannot support any breakage that may occur.

## Python 3.x or Python 2.x
Homebrew provides one formula for Python 2.7.x and another for Python 3.x. 

To install Python 3.X with Homebrew:

`brew install python` 
or 
`brew install python3`

To (optionally) install Python 2.X with Homebrew:

`brew install python2` 
or
`brew install python@2`

For Python 2.X only: if you want to be able to call `python2` from the path, add the following line to your `~/.bash_profile` (or equivalent). For more information, see the formula's caveats.

`export PATH="/usr/local/opt/python@2/libexec/bin:$PATH"`


The executables are organized as follows so that Python 2 and Python 3 can both be installed without conflict:
* `python` and `python3` point to Homebrew's Python 3.x (if installed) otherwise the macOS system Python
* `python2` points to Homebrew's Python 2.7.x (if installed)
* `pip` and `pip3` point to Homebrew's Python 3.x's pip (if installed)
* `pip2` points to Homebrew's Python 2.7.x's pip (if installed)

([Wondering which one to choose?](https://wiki.python.org/moin/Python2orPython3))

## Setuptools, Pip, etc.
The Python formulae install [pip](http://www.pip-installer.org) (as `pip` or `pip2`) and [Setuptools](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools).

Setuptools can be updated via pip, without having to re-brew Python:

```sh
python -m pip install --upgrade setuptools
```

Similarly, pip can be used to upgrade itself via:

```sh
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

### Note on `pip install --user`
The normal `pip install --user` is disabled for brewed Python. This is because of a bug in distutils, because Homebrew writes a `distutils.cfg` which sets the package `prefix`.

A possible workaround (which puts executable scripts in `~/Library/Python/<X>.<Y>/bin`) is:

```sh
python -m pip install --user --install-option="--prefix=" <package-name>
```

## `site-packages` and the `PYTHONPATH`
The `site-packages` is a directory that contains Python modules (especially bindings installed by other formulae). Homebrew creates it here:

```sh
$(brew --prefix)/lib/pythonX.Y/site-packages
```

So, for Python 3.6.x, you'll find it at `/usr/local/lib/python3.6/site-packages`.

Python 3.6 also searches for modules in:

- `/Library/Python/3.6/site-packages`
- `~/Library/Python/3.6/lib/python/site-packages`

Homebrew's `site-packages` directory is first created if (1) any Homebrew formula with Python bindings are installed, or (2) upon `brew install python`.

### Why here?
The reasoning for this location is to preserve your modules between (minor) upgrades or re-installations of Python. Additionally, Homebrew has a strict policy never to write stuff outside of the `brew --prefix`, so we don't spam your system.

## Homebrew-provided Python bindings
Some formulae provide Python bindings. Sometimes a `--with-python` or `--with-python@2` option has to be passed to `brew install` in order to build the Python bindings. (Check with `brew options <formula>`.)

**Warning!** Python may crash (see [Common Issues](Common-Issues.md)) if you `import <module>` from a brewed Python if you ran `brew install <formula_with_python_bindings>` against the system Python. If you decide to switch to the brewed Python, then reinstall all formulae with Python bindings (e.g. `pyside`, `wxwidgets`, `pygtk`, `pygobject`, `opencv`, `vtk` and `boost-python`).

## Policy for non-brewed Python bindings
These should be installed via `pip install <package>`. To discover, you can use `pip search` or <https://pypi.python.org/pypi>. (**Note:** System Python does not provide `pip`. Follow the [pip documentation](https://pip.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installing/#install-pip) to install it for your system Python if you would like it.)

## Brewed Python modules
For brewed Python, modules installed with `pip` or `python setup.py install` will be installed to the `$(brew --prefix)/lib/pythonX.Y/site-packages` directory (explained above). Executable Python scripts will be in `$(brew --prefix)/bin`.

The system Python may not know which compiler flags to set in order to build bindings for software installed in Homebrew so you may need to run:

```sh
CFLAGS=-I$(brew --prefix)/include LDFLAGS=-L$(brew --prefix)/lib pip install <package>
```

## Virtualenv
**WARNING:** When you `brew install` formulae that provide Python bindings, you should **not be in an active virtual environment**.

Activate the virtualenv *after* you've brewed, or brew in a fresh Terminal window.
Homebrew will still install Python modules into Homebrew's `site-packages` and *not* into the virtual environment's site-package.

Virtualenv has a `--system-site-packages` switch to allow "global" (i.e. Homebrew's) `site-packages` to be accessible from within the virtualenv.

## Why is Homebrew's Python being installed as a dependency?
Formulae that declare an unconditional dependency on the `"python"` or `"python@2"` formulae are bottled against Homebrew's Python 3.x or 2.7.x and require it to be installed.
